# Rotating cube

This is a fast iteration to create a 3D wireframe rendering engine. It's only the first step. It makes sure to take a 3D object, project the points of the object onto 2D and then draw the projected object onto the screen. There's no pipeline yet and it just takes the local coordinates and projects them pretty much right onto the screen. So no world, camera or other kinds of transformations. Just to see the 3D effect better, I have the cube rotating, although that also makes it look a bit Escher, since the order in which the polygons is drawn isn't sorted, so sometimes lines from the triangles in the back are drawn last, making them appear in front of the lines that are more to the front. That's actually fine for now, we'll get to sorting and all sorts of stuff in later iterations. I just wanted to get the bare minimum working again.

I guess the most interesting function in this whole iteration is the `project3DPoint` function in `src/3d-utils.ts`. This is where the magic actually happens, converting a 3D point into a projectable 2D point. All the rest is pretty much data structure scaffolding for all the 2D and 3D points and polygons. The Object3D is also rather clunky right now, since it's just a collection of polygons (read: triangles) and is in no way optimized. The points I use are repeated a lot, so there is definitely room to optimize where we can just reuse points at the very least. Probably in the end it will become more of a flat list of points and vertices that make up everything, rather than have them live as separate Polygon3D records in the Object3D. But that's also refinements for a next iteration.

I relied on AI to scaffold all of this stuff now, using Claude Sonnet 4 with Windsurf on my VSCode. So far, to be honest, it gave very good results. Let's see how it performs going forward.# rotating-cube
